Chapter 7 of Tutorial (#4)
joelhans/netdata-tutorial: part-07.mdx

# Netdata's dashboard in depth

Welcome to the seventh part of the Netdata guide!

This guide assumes your dashboard is running and you are familiar with it. 

This part of the guide aims to get you more familiar with the features of the dashboard 
not previously mentioned in earlier parts of the guide.

## What you'll learn in this part

In this part of the Netdata guide, you'll learn how to:

-   Change the dashboard's settings
-   Check if there's an update to Netdata
-   Export or import a snapshot

Let's get started!

## Change the dashboard's settings

> The settings tab at the top of your Netdata dashboard houses browser settings. 

Author: I kind of prefer area.

### Visual

This tab focuses on the visuals of your dashboard.

You can switch between the default dark theme and white. 
This action and switching the **Help Me** button triggers a reload of the dashboard.

You can also enable data padding and Bézier lines on charts.

### Locale

This tab houses options to scale and select units for time and temperature.

You can also choose either to use browser local time or server time. 

However, note that these settings are applied gradually as charts are updated. 
To force them, refresh the dashboard now. 

![dash-settings](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/12263278/64901553-967f3880-d692-11e9-95ac-dd485d36535c.gif)

## Check if there's an update to Netdata

Netdata upon installation with [the one-liner](https://docs.netdata.cloud/packaging/installer/#one-line-installation) 
comes with the auto-update option enabled by default.

You can always check if there is an update available right from the Update tab of your Netdata dashboard.

![nedata-update](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/12263278/64876743-be957a00-d647-11e9-83dd-2f0a8df572cb.gif)

> You can see an update is available from the above short screen record.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If an update is available, you'll see a modal similar to the one above.
```

Netdata automatically updates itself, but if you choose to update it manually, there are [several well-documented methods](https://docs.netdata.cloud/packaging/installer/update/) to achieve that. 
However, it is best practice for you to first go over the [changelog](https://docs.netdata.cloud/changelog/).

## Export or import a snapshot

Snapshot files include all the information of the dashboard, including the URL of the origin server, 

> its netdata unique ID, and chart data queries for the visible timeframe,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
its unique ID, and chart data queries for the visible timeframe,
```

> so align, pan and zoom the charts as needed. 

Reviewer: I think you meant "to"?

```suggestion
to align, pan, and zoom the charts as needed. 
```

Snapshots are not in real-time. 

> Netdata can export and import dashboard snapshots. Any Netdata can import the snapshot of any other Netdata. 

Reviewer: I feel like this should be the first sentence of the section, then follow up with what a snapshot contains.

> You download the snapshot to your computer as a file, 

Reviewer: I'm not sure if the content from here to **To export or save a snapshot** is necessary.

that can be imported back into any Netdata dashboard, 
you do not need to import it back to the current server.

Snapshots don't upload to a server; instead, the web browser on your computer handles them.

> They are temporary because, on the reload of your browser, the actual Netdata dashboard replaces the snapshot.

Reviewer: Cut this, since I think you should put it later.

### To export or save a snapshot

 Click on the top upload icon as seen on the short clip below, edit the snapshot file name and 
 finally select your desired compression method and click `Export`.

 ![export-shot](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/12263278/64901454-48b60080-d691-11e9-9c14-1539bc841735.gif)

 You save the snapshot file after it gets generated on your browser and like a regular file attachment, 
 you can email it to your colleague.

 Congratulations, you have successfully exported a snapshot.

>  #### To import or load a snapshot

Reviewer: Shouldn't this be `###`?

```suggestion
 ### To import or load a snapshot
```

 Click on the top download icon as seen on the short clip below. 

![import-shot](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/12263278/64901503-ee696f80-d691-11e9-9678-8d0e2a162402.gif)

 Select the Netdata snapshot file to import. 

>  Once the file is loaded, click `import` to render it.

Reviewer: This is the point where I'd explain that refreshing Netdata will then erase the snapshot data and bring you back to real-time updates.

>  ## Up Next

Reviewer: Change this to **What's next?**

```suggestion
 ## What's next?
```
